Project Gutenberg's Ruth's Marriage in Mars, by Mrs. Charles Wilder Glass

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: Ruth's Marriage in Mars
       A Scientific Novel

Author: Mrs. Charles Wilder Glass

Release Date: January 8, 2018 [EBook #56338]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RUTH'S MARRIAGE IN MARS ***




Produced by MFR and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
images generously made available by The Internet Archive)






[Illustration:   Image of Book Cover]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: “AUTHORESS AND CHILD”]




                        Ruth’s Marriage in Mars

                               ----------

                           A SCIENTIFIC NOVEL

                               ----------

                                   BY
                       MRS. CHARLES WILDER GLASS

                      [Illustration: title page]




                              Copyright by
                       MRS. CHARLES WILDER GLASS
                                  1912

                                  ---

                             Books sold at
                     856 West Fifty-seventh Street
                           Los Angeles, Cal.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                              DEDICATION.


It gives me great pleasure to dedicate this book to all my readers. I
also dedicate it to my dear father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. L. R.
Perkins. To my two brothers and three sweet, lovely sisters; to my dear
friends Dr. Willard P. Burke and his brother, Dr. Benjamin Franklin
Burke and his only son, Willard Franklin Burke, and only daughter,
Millie Burke. To my husband, Charles Wilder Glass, and to my only child,
Jennie May Glass. All these dear souls have been a great comfort and
blessing to me. In my darkest hours they have thrown their sacred
influence around me. I dearly love all these and many hundreds of
others. I wish I could express in this little book my love for all
humanity. May my daughter be as great a blessing to the world as she is
to her father and mother. My earnest prayer is,

           May God protect her,
           Love be true to her,
           Joy draw near to her,
           Home a joy to her,
           Health stay close to her,
           Life be dear to her.
           Wealth find what you can do for her;
           Search your treasure house thro and thro for her.
           May God and His dear angels, and our loving
           Saviour guide her steps forever, is my prayer.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                                PREFACE.


I am a Catholic-Psychic, and believe in the Holy Catholic Church, the
communion of Saints (this is a fact to me for I have often seen my
saints and heard them), the forgiveness of all sins, the resurrection of
the body and life everlasting. I write this little book to prove man an
immortal being, to comfort all those that suffer. My saints have proven
to me there is no death. I long to prove this to my dear readers, for it
is a fact. May this little book always be a comfort and blessing to you.
May all my dear readers have this same beautiful experience; all learn
for themselves life is immortal, life is beautiful. Please earnestly
investigate and find this fact out for yourselves—I did. If you will go
into the silence every other night and pray, then be calm, very quiet,
relax the mind and body, in a short time you will see or hear, or feel
some of your loved ones, as I have seen and heard them. After you have
heard these sweet heavenly voices, or have seen the dear faces of your
loved ones, please tell the world these beautiful facts, as our sweet
saint Jeanne d’Arc did; we can all write and teach facts now without
being burned alive. “As freely as ye receive freely give.”

Dear readers, this little romance is founded on facts. All journeys to
other stars are true. The names are fictitious. The gist of this story
is all true. It is wicked to write a lie, even in a novel. This book is
written to inspire more love for each other. May we all love one another
more, comfort others as our Saviour and His angels have loved us. As you
read this book please remember I love you all dearly. God rules and
watches over you; He sends your loved ones to comfort and protect you.
Please try to always bear this in mind, and may you always be happy and
contented. If you wish to develope your souls, and keep in harmony with
God, you must keep sweet, cheerful, prayerful, and love one another.
Love, Divine love, is the secret of salvation. So pray for love, peace
and happiness.

                                                             THE AUTHOR.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                               CHAPTER I.

                ’Tis heaven alone that is given away;
                ’Tis only God may be had for the asking.

                                                                —Lowell.


It was a lovely twilight evening at Lytton Springs, India. These famous
springs were very high up in the Araville hills; Mandavee was the
nearest city, situated on a small island in the Arabian sea. The great
red sun was slowly sinking as the bells were ringing the Angelus from an
ancient Hindoo temple. The sacred chimes pealed forth melodiously, the
sweet sounds echoing forth the harmony of those bells. Inside of this
ancient temple sweet incense was burning on a beautiful golden altar. A
dark, handsome prince and his family were praying around this sacred
altar. Here they would often see beautiful visions of angels and their
loved ones who had died in this same faith years ago. This faith was a
strange, mysterious, mythical religion, handed down from the ancient
Indians. It was a mixture of Catholicism and Hindooism. The Prince and
his family were highly educated and great musicians; they were all great
Psychics, and often spent hours in this old temple praying. They lived
in constant communion with their saints, who constantly watched over
them and protected them. At the other side of this altar a strange
veiled princess was silently praying. After sunset they all left the
temple with bowed heads. They went to their summer homes in the hills.
Sita, the Prince’s only daughter, felt sorry for the lonely stranger and
invited her to their lovely home in the mountains.

“May I ask the name of my lovely hostess?” asked the lonely stranger.

“My name is Sita, dear. My father is Prince Cresto. We spend our summers
here in these lovely mountains. Won’t you please come home and spend the
evening with us?”

“I, too, am a princess from Southern Egypt. My name is Princess Kezia.
If you love me, just call me Kez for short.”

“I fell in love with you at first sight, Kez. Please come and dine with
us this evening. Come just as you are!”

“I will, dear Sita, for the hotel seems so far away. Sita, what a dear,
lovely home you have way up here in the hills.”

“Father and mother, this is Princess Kezia. Kez, this is my father,
Prince Cresto, and my mother, Princess Mara; this other young gentleman
is my brother Persus; he has just graduated at Delhi as M. D., and now
has charge of a large sanitarium here at Lytton Springs. Kez, he is also
a mental healer and many come just to get well mentally. He has great
success in healing the body through the mind. He and my father have a
large class at the sanitarium just to develope the soul.”

“Doctor,” said Princess Kezia, “I would love to join your class. I came
to these hills just to develope the soul.”

“Princess Kezia,” said the doctor, “we have a small class to meet here
in our library tonight—some are here now. I will let you sit here in
this big easy chair close to my own, so you will not be afraid.”

In a few minutes the large library was filled with lovely, refined,
highly educated people. The library was lighted up with many candles,
held in lovely gold candlesticks. These lovely gold ornaments were
handed down from one generation to the other.

These dear friends formed a circle with their chairs. They held each
other’s hands, and sang and prayed, then all were silent for a few
minutes. Suddenly there were many strange lights, the lights looked like
stars; some had many colors. One light near the doctor and I was a soft
blue, another red, another yellow. The blue light came close to me and
grew larger and larger. I saw in this wonderful light a lovely angel,
all in white. By this time my fear had left me. I looked up and asked
her name.

“My name is Hope, dear Kezia, I have been with you for years. Always
loving and protecting you. It was I that influenced your mind to come
here, just so your band of angels could develope you. Kezia, dear, are
you willing that we should?”

“Yes, Hope, I am very anxious.”

“In order to learn we must study hard, and get in perfect harmony with
our Father, who is all mind. We get into harmony by work, by prayer, and
doing His Divine will. Prayer without works is in vain. Great love to
others brings great reward. My dear, keep very busy and cheerful. Take
better care of your health; illness, melancholy, and idleness is the
cause of most crime, sorrow and suicide. All rich should hire more help,
study more, encourage universal farming—farming is a beautiful art. A
lovely home on a perfect little farm is heaven on earth. Kezia, dear
child, I must let others talk now. Try to remember every word that is
taught in class by these dear angels.”

Another bright angel of light spoke next. He was a tall gentleman, over
six foot, wearing long flowing robes.

“Dear friends, all honest work is beautiful and elevating. We should
encourage and uplift all work. In Venus, where I live, farming is the
most popular art; a farmer is just as good as his banker, he should be
treated so by all classes. All farmers should be highly educated, and go
into the very best society. In all higher planets, farmers are the
aristocrats; they are all true Christians and live up to the Golden
Rule. In seeking real happiness we must first realize we are all one
universal family; all part of God, all made in the image of God. We are
all Divine, as long as we keep in harmony with Our Father. We must say,
‘Thy will be done,’ before we are His children. We can’t live without
Him. It is getting late and you all need sleep. We will repeat the
Lord’s prayer and retire.”

Princess Mara put her arms around Kezia and invited her to stay all
night. “Kez, you may sleep with my daughter, so you will not get
nervous.”

Sita and I slept soundly until sunrise.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER II.


                All God’s angels will say, “Well done!”
                Whenever thy mortal race is run.
                    White and forgiven,
                    Thou’lt enter heaven
                And pass, unchallenged, the Golden Gate,
                Where welcoming spirits watch and wait
                To hail thy coming with sweet accord
                To the Holy City of God the Lord.


The next morning I heard these words sung by the family in the library
downstairs. I heard Prince Cresto’s rich tenor above the rest. They kept
on singing in perfect harmony as I went down stairs. The doctor met me
in the big hall and invited me in to family prayers at sunrise. After
this sacred service was over, I said good bye to my new friends and
walked quickly to my room at the hotel. I promised Dr. Persus to go back
the next evening to another class.

I spent most of that day roaming those lovely Araville hills, and
praying in the old temple.

Twilight found me again at the home of Princess Mara. This lovely mother
was very tall and dark, also having dark brown hair. As I entered the
door she held out both slender hands to welcome me. Prince Cresto and
she invited me to stay with them as their guest that summer. After
studying the matter over I consented. Sita called us all to supper. I
was surprised at this simple repast; dates, nuts and grape juice was all
that was served. This was served on a lovely hardwood table inlaid with
pearls and white ivory. A lovely large butterfly was carved in the
center of this expensive old table; the butterfly was made of pure gold
and silver, all filigreed in this beautiful hardwood. The eyes of this
wonderful golden butterfly were two bright red rubies. My surprise and
delight was great happiness to me.

“Doctor, what a beautiful and wonderful butterfly!”

“Yes, Princess Kezia, we had it inlaid there, for it is an emblem of
immortality.”

“We only eat a light supper, so we can develope our souls. We could not
see clairvoyantly if we ate too much. We only eat two meals a day,
morning and evening. Instead of eating at noon we rest and pray, as they
did of old.”

After supper was over the doctor offered me his arm and we all went to
class again. It was about the same as the night before; only there was
more music, and the angels sang with us, and their sweet voices were so
perfect that for a moment I thought I was in heaven. O! such music there
among the flowers and trees, by the hillside! Their sweet voices sang in
harmony with the beautiful pale, golden moonlight. No sunlight was ever
so beautiful as this to me! After the music had ceased we were all
silent again. Prince Cresto’s guardian angel spoke tonight. His name was
Eno, and he came from Neptune. Eno was over six feet in height; he had
large, soulful blue eyes, and light brown hair. His hair was heavy and
wavy and seemed about two inches in length; it was parted on the left
side, just as he used to wear it in earth-life.

“My dear brothers and sisters, I was the poor priest that laid the
corner stone to your temple,” he said. “I was killed in a war—religious
war—against the Jews. We never think of war now, we know it is a sin to
even think a wrong. We just love one another and are perfectly happy. In
Neptune we teach all how to be happy. Our first duty there is to love
one another and be happy. We have great, broad and massive temples there
to worship the Lord and His Holy Angels in. On Sabbath we all pray and
sing the same as you do here. There all practice just what they preach.
In Neptune our sermons and prayers are very short and our songs very
long. The hymns at first would remind you of a grand opera, only a great
deal nicer. All their splendid sweet voices have been trained for years
and years before they can sing in those wonderful temples. Even in
Neptune we find talent is only the result of hard work. All learn to
sing there sooner or later.

“In all the country towns there are many smaller temples where all sing
lovely. It is at the capitol where these glorious songs are heard. All
can go to hear them if they wish; church music is always free to all.
Our church doors are never closed. It is selfish to close them. In many
of the other stars we teach God is immortal and independent without us.
God can destroy all that He has created, and live on forever and ever
without us. Hence we should be grateful, prayerful, humble, and
Christlike, and always happy in serving God. We should place great value
on our physical bodies, for it is the temple of our souls. If our bodies
are perfect, it is easy to get in perfect harmony with our Creator. Life
should be all ecstacy! Life is beautiful on earth or any other planet. I
enjoy life with all my soul—we all should.

“What a divine privilege of having the sweet pleasure of loving all
humanity as our dear Saviour did. I know He loves us now more than ever.
How beautiful to know He still loves us. As we love our Father He loves
us. You and I know there is no death. I know I was once your priest; now
I am your servant from another star. I only come back to help and serve.
I will give you a few plans to lay up treasures in heaven, and give you
greater happiness here. It is more beautiful to adopt children instead
of dogs, cats, and monkeys. They can hunt their living in the woods, our
dear little ones are helpless. Each little orphan has hundreds of good
intelligent souls from heaven to guide it. Angels protect you a thousand
fold as soon as you adopt a helpless child. Our Saviour said, ‘Feed my
sheep, if one little lamb is an outcast or lost on the rugged hillside,
let the other ninety and nine run quickly to save it.’ Here we fly
quickly to save a lost soul. It is Christlike and generous to adopt a
lame or blind child. Love is all there is in life. Universal love and
education will make heaven on earth the same as it does in other stars.
You need more schools. Your churches and halls should be used for free
schools, day and night, and only used for religious services Saturday
and Sunday. All should have a chance to be highly educated. I would not
have been killed if the soldiers at that time had been highly educated;
they enjoyed killing me by inches with their cruel swords. I thought
death would never come. Lovely, intelligent angels took me home to peace
and happiness. I never have suffered since and never will, for now I
live in a land of immortal love and sunshine. I beg you earnestly to
teach and preach love. All your parks should be used for kindergartens
and rest. Let all children rest more, and study more, and swim more.
Good night.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER III.

              “Some god hath cast me forth upon this land,
              And O, what land? So thick is the sea mist.”


The next morning Princess Kezia was up before sunrise. She dressed
quickly so she would have time to pray all alone in the dear old temple
before the others were up. On the way up the hill she accidentally met
the doctor going in the same direction.

“Princess Kezia, I was just going to the temple to pray also.”

“Doctor, how did you know I was going there?”

“I can read your thoughts, Kezia. Could you guess what my prayer could
be?”

“No, Doctor, I am sorry that I am unable to read your thoughts.”

“Come, and I will tell you on the way. I was going to pray that you
would be my wife, all my very own, forever. Do you love me well enough
to marry me within a month? I could not stand to have you leave me now.
My darling, I loved you the first time I ever saw your sweet face. Dear,
you are different from others, so fair and light. You are all love and
sunshine. Most girls I know are dark and all alike, you are different.
Have I the power to make you happy, dear? Will you marry me soon? I want
to own you as quickly as possible. Answer me please?”

“Doctor, I love you dearly. It is so strange I loved you too the first
time I ever saw you. I have been afraid some one would guess my secret.
For fear some one would read my very heart I was going to pack up and
leave for my home in Southern Egypt. My poor old parents live in
Pibeseth, an old city of Bastel. My folks live a few miles from the city
on a dear, lovely little farm, all fenced in. My mother is small and
dark, and was, when a girl, very beautiful. My mother was a beautiful
dark Indian princess. My father was a tall, light complexioned, Egyptian
king. I look like my father.”

“Yes, dear, but you haven’t given me my answer yet?”

“Doctor, we will be married as soon as you say. So I will do all in my
power to make you happy.”

As they stepped inside of the church, he held her passionately to his
heart. As they walked to the altar he kissed her a thousand times at
least. They both bowed their heads in silent prayer and gratitude for
such perfect love and happiness. In looking up they saw Hope (Kezia’s
lovely angel), holding out her little white arms, blessing them.

“Now, dear Kezia, do you see why we brought you here? God has made you
for each other. You are both one. After death you will meet again never
to be parted.”

The Doctor took off a beautiful ring from his little finger and gave it
to the Princess.

“Sweetheart, this ring my mother gave me when I graduated at Delhi. You
may call it your engagement ring, if you will?”

Hope kissed the ring and kissed her brow as the Doctor placed it on her
finger.

“O! what joy, what heaven, to be kissed by an angel like Hope; and to be
always loved by such a gentleman as the Doctor. Hope, dear, your sweet
lips feel just like a real mortal. Why not?”

“I am more real than you are. I am more alive than you are, as I am in
perfect health and I am immortal. I ask you both to continue praying in
the temple for a few hours without any food. Tonight we want to take you
to Rome, Paris, and Monte Carlo. If you don’t eat much your soul can
travel at will after you are well developed. I will guide you on the way
and teach your soul how much missionary work is yet to be done on earth.
Good bye, dear children, you will see me again tonight. If you can’t see
me you will know that I am with you.”

After prayers the Doctor took Kezia home, and announced their engagement
to his folks. They all received her with open arms as one of their very
own.

“O, Kezia, I am so glad you are my very own sister now. I always wanted
a sister to boss, and do as I pleased with, and you just fill the bill.”

That night all the household retired to rest peacefully. That night two
hearts were overflowing with love and happiness.

Kezia took Sita in her arms and kissed her fondly. The two lovely girls
went to sleep with a new sweet smile on their pretty young faces.

Soon Kezia’s soul seemed to be free, floating away in space. We visited
the Pope of Rome first. He was on his knees talking to his saints in
sweet love and harmony. We soon knew that he saw all of us
clairvoyantly. Part of His Holy saints joined with us. We soon saw the
bright lights of gay Paris below us. Down, down, we went into the very
heart of the city. The first sounds that reached our ears were the
prayers of the poor and broken hearted. We saw the old and young begging
in the streets at midnight. They begged from those that were dressed in
the latest fashion. I never saw such lovely clothes, and so many bright
colors in the moonlight. Those clad in rags had more light in their
souls than the rich that would now and then toss them a copper, just to
make a display in the eyes of their mistresses. Many poor, cold, hungry,
suffering creatures had no beds to get a moment’s rest on. Many were
never inside of a real home. The misery was awful! When we could not
stand it any longer we went to Florence, Italy; there the suffering
seemed about the same. Here we found great wealth and great poverty and
suffering. Wherever we find great wealth we found great poverty. Hope
said our love for all souls prevents great poverty in other worlds. Our
great schools of industry prevents poverty. We are taught to give the
laborer all he earns; each has all he can earn, all are paid in checks
and no money is ever used.

We soon went to Monte Carlo. We saw many men and women gamble for money,
as they smoked around the tables. We could see they were money mad. Many
lost great fortunes that night; many won. We noticed one short, dark,
little woman they called Lena, win every cent a light, tall blonde had;
they called him Alo Lamar. He offered her his hand and smiled. We could
read his thoughts and knew the reason. She invited him to her room a few
blocks away. He began to make love to her for her money only. She coaxed
him to write a short note to his mistress, Ada, telling her he had left
her forever. Soon they were both sound asleep, drunk. As we watched
them, our souls could read their thoughts, which were awful. We could
see very little light around them; this proves their souls were
undeveloped. The man called Alo Lamar soon awoke, staggered a moment,
then reached under the woman’s pillow and took all her money and jewels,
went over to the table and took up the carving knife and killed her! He
covered her up, and with a cruel smile washed his hands and surveyed
himself in the glass. There were no stains of blood on his clothes. He
smiled, locked the door and went out into the darkness. We saw angels
near him recording every act he did; we also saw fiends grabbing Lena’s
dark soul and dragging her down, down! Alo Lamar walked back to the
banks of Monte Carlo. He began playing cards madly. He lost every cent
he had stolen from his wicked mistress. He reached over the table, took
up a revolver and blew out his brains; blew his very soul into eternity,
all because he lost money. We all felt the shock from the awful shot! We
saw his dark soul go down, down! His astral form was much smaller now.
Again we saw awful wicked fiends drag him down to Purgatory. His mind
was absolutely insane now, and would be for years to come. If any one
shoots their minds away it ruins the soul. This is a scientific fact,
the Doctor said.

“Please let’s go home,” I cried, “I can’t stand to see any more crimes.”

Our angels at once took us up, up, on electric spiral waves; up we went
into the pure fresh air, up into the lovely soft moonlight, away from
all darkness and crime.

“O! how lovely to float in space like this. O! Hope, my sweet saint, can
the dear angels in Mars, Neptune, Venus, Saturn and Jupiter float in
such wild ecstacy as we do?”

At this question they all laughed, their merry voices of silver filled
the air.

“What is the matter, Doctor?”

“Just look back of you and see!”

I looked back, and saw two lovely angels, male and female, holding me up
by a long, strong, silk sash that I had not noticed until now. They
smiled and said: “We have carried you all the way.”

In all the higher planets they soon learn to float alone, as it takes
some people a long time to learn to swim, it takes some angels a long
time to learn to float. It was about dawn the next day when our angels
left us at our own home. I woke Sita up and told her all I had seen.

“Kez, my darling, how strange! I had the very same sad experience.”

After Sita and I had combed each other’s hair we went down to breakfast.
What a lovely sight met our eyes! The table was loaded with lovely fruit
and beautiful flowers. A beautiful venetian gold filigree vase of lovely
dark red roses was placed in front of the Doctor, and he took one of the
perfect red buds and pinned it in my hair.

“This beautiful morning is the dawning of a perfect love for us, dear.
After breakfast we will go for a long walk.”

We had many kinds of fruit and nuts, and instead of grape juice, we
drank a cup of warm new milk. We saw the boy milk the cow at our door
steps as we began to eat breakfast; we knew the milk was pure.

Everything tasted delicious. The longing for bread, cake and meat had
gradually left me. I had to give up my old habits of eating candy and
hot bread in order to see clairvoyantly.

Doctor and I were soon walking alone in the mountains together, talking
over our future life.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER IV.


“Kezia, my darling, we will sit here under this old juniper tree.
Dearest, I want to tell of my experience last night. My soul left the
body and traveled away; far away, down into darkness. I was taken to the
underworld in the very depths of Purgatory. Darling Kezia, there is no
everlasting Hell, but this place was about the same. I talked with a
lost soul, his name was Alo Lamar. I read the electric aura around his
head, and saw he had just killed a wicked, low, heartless, negro woman,
called Lena Williams. Alo left his sick wife, Odal Lamar, in Rome,
starving; later he became a robber and bought and sold pure young girls,
some of their names I could read in his aura—his aura was black. Lena
and Alo Lamar had sold a poor girl called Minnie. Others named Ada,
Bertha, Fannie, Maud, and two named Georgia and Josephine, both were
insane now.”

“O! Persus darling, I dreamed I saw him kill Lena and then himself at
Monte Carlo. My vision was awful!”

“Kezia, my poor little dove, your words prove all I saw was a fact. I
saw him judged by the severe courts of the underworld. The Priest who
read his sentence wore long black sombre robes. This priest spoke in a
subdued, but deep, cold, stern undertone, his word was law there.

“‘Alo Lamar, you and this low, Lena Williams, will be insane here for
over one hundred years. Every day will seem a thousand years. After the
time expires you may both work your way out of here by degrees! No soul
shall ever be permitted to love or help you two fiends in any way;
during this time neither you or that wicked woman shall ever see one ray
of light. Come, black insane fiends, and obsess these cruel souls for
one hundred years and more! Dark spirits take these two low fools! Cast
them down into prison; bind them down with thorns and snakes!’ I saw
Lena and Alo Lamar severely punished for selling the souls of sweet,
pure young girls.

            “O, woman! woman! when to ill thy mind is bent,
             All hell contains no fouler fiend.”

“Alo Lamar and Lena had ruined the happiness of good women for years.
Why shouldn’t they suffer all they caused others to suffer? Kezia
dearest, it is only justice! They must reap as they have sown. Kezia, my
love, forgive me. You are pale and trembling like a leaf. We will talk
of our wedding day, then you will be happy again.”

“My darling Persus, next Sunday we will be married.”

“My sweet Kezia, will you wear my mother’s wedding veil? My mother asked
me if you would honor her by wearing it. Will you, sweetheart?”

“My own darling Persus, I would love to wear it.”

“Love, soon as we are married, we will work together for good, dear
Kezia, my pet, we are so happy together now, that we will devote all our
lives in making others happy. We will prove our gratitude to God, by
working for Him. I love Him for He has joined our hearts together in
perfect love and immortal happiness! It is a pleasure to serve Him with
you by my side. May God help us to love others more; the world craves
it. Above all things we need now is universal love. Sincere brotherly
love.


               “The soul that loves, forever sings,
               And feels as light as though it had wings;
               The heart that trusts, forever prays,
               A well of peace within it springs.
                 Come good or ill,
               Whatever today, tomorrow brings,
                 It is His will.

“Kezia, my own darling, promise me that you will be brave, if we are
ever parted, will you little sweetheart?” We Indians are taught from
childhood never to fear death. ‘Death is better than one’s birth. If we
are true, good, sincere Catholics.’ Remember, pet, our love will live
beyond the grave. Love is life. ‘God is love.’ Love is all there is in
life, little girl.”

“Persus, darling, how lovely and perfect the world is to us. If we
should be parted now, it would kill me. Doctor, I love you fondly. I
worship you madly.”

“My own Kezia, little sweetheart, I love you more than you do me; I will
always adore you with all my heart and soul. Long before I saw you, I
often dreamed you were my wife, my only love, some times we were picking
beautiful flowers on the hillside; sometimes I would see you in a lovely
home playing with my children. My only love, will all those dear dreams
ever come true? Pet, I know in Heaven these dreams will all come true,
if our prayers are not answered here, God will answer them just over
there. My little dove, I will love you through all eternity. I worship
you, Kezia! My life, my love, my one idol! My only happiness.
Sweetheart, I wish every one was as rich and happy as we are now, dear.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                               CHAPTER V.

           “The king then asked, as yet the camp he viewed,
           What prince is that, with giant strength endued;
           Whose brawny shoulders, and whose swelling chest,
           And lofty stature, far exceed the rest.”


The king of Rajpootana, was a tall, broad shouldered, ugly Indian. He
was black as night, and had heavy, short, straight, black hair; his eyes
were black and piercing. Any one would fear him as soon as they looked
into those wicked, fiery eyes. He had eyes of a demon, his face was
large, broad and brutal. He seemed to be a great, strong, powerful
animal without a soul. This wicked king owned a great palace in the
northern part of the Araville mountains. He ruled over a large tribe of
fighting Indians, who did just as their king commanded. One of his
favorite spies told him of a rich prince who owned a large gold mine,
the richest he ever saw. The king was wild with delight and gave his spy
a new sword, and many lovely jewels. King Pootana soon armed his tribe,
then moved south to capture this rich mine. The king accumulated all his
wealth by stealing from other kings. The drums were beating weirdly, as
the dusky tribe moved stealthily down the mountain side, hiding safely
now and then in the deep, thick, dark, dense forest which was the home
of many kinds of poisonous reptiles. The wicked spy led his king’s tribe
safely up the hillside until they came in sight of the old dome on the
temple, then they crawled on their hands and knees for miles for fear of
being detected. They crawled safely among the trees up to Lytton
Springs. Here they rested awhile in the forest.

Higher up in the mountains a Hindoo ceremony was being performed by
Terah, the high priest. Two young priests who graduated at Delhi the
same time the Doctor did, assisted in the ceremony. One had a temple at
Ellora, the other at Loodiana, two large cities in India. The old temple
was decorated with gorgeous tropical flowers. The altar was one massive
bank of red and white roses. The bride and her maids carried large
bouquets of lillies of the valley. Kezia wore long white silk robes, the
sash embroidered with lillies of the valley. She wore Princess Mara’s
wedding veil, also a long string of large pink pearls that Prince Cresto
gave her at the ceremony. A slave carried a large casket of precious
jewels for the bride. The guests were all of high caste. All were merry,
congratulating the bride and kissing her. The gentlemen were throwing
lovely buds and flowers at the happy couple. The high priest, Terah, is
telling of his secret marriage when he was a young priest in
Nizagapatum, a lovely city on the Bay of Bengal:

“My dear old high priest saw in a vision that Sizuna was my soul mate,
that God had made us for each other. This ancient seer told me I would
find her in the province of Bengal, a mile south of the capital of
Calcutta. He described her, told me her name, age and all about her
people. I went to the place and found it just as he foretold. All was
just as he prophesied. Our King opposed the wedding, so we were married
secretly. We went to a small isle at the mouth of the Ganges. There were
four lovely little islands here. I took charge of a temple on the one
called Sundeep; the names of the other three were Hattiah, Dakhin, and
Shaboz. I was the happiest priest in the world. We loved and served the
people day and night, never growing tired in doing good. We gave all our
wealth to the poor in Calcutta and to our temple. She named our dear old
temple, ‘The Temple of the Soul.’ And it was in every sense of the word.
You, my dear children, could not believe the wonderful things that
happened there in our circle. In that lovely temple we had three large
golden symbols inlaid in our marble altar—the cross, triangle and
circle; the circle representing God, the Universal Soul. India is the
birthplace of all religions—the Eden—the conjugal circle of soul. The
soul is everything to a true Hindoo. Some priests in India almost starve
in order to develope the soul.

“One dark night Sizuna and I were praying in our lovely little home near
the temple, which was surrounded on all sides with grapes, fruit, lovely
birds and flowers, and was near the temple, when at midnight we heard an
awful cry in the darkness, ‘The waters! The waters!’ A great cyclone
arose and rolled the sea over those four lovely isles, and a population
of 340,000 to 350,000 people were drowned, only those being saved who
had climbed to the tops of the highest trees. Did you ever hear of such
an awful cyclone? I pray God you may never see what we saw that awful
black night of sorrow. For hours I held Sizuna on the housetop. I kissed
her cold, pale lips and soon saw she was dead. Cold and fear had killed
her while she lay in my arms. I gave up, broken hearted, and sank in the
waters. When I came to the top again, two tall, lovely angels with light
around their beautiful heads held me firmly out of the waters. They
floated me gently and lovingly to a tall tree. There I clung until the
waters receded into the sea. Every day since that sad night my twin
soul, Sizuna has been with me. I see her and hear her talk the same as
she did before the flood. I have always been true to this one sweet
soul—my only love—I never can love another.”

After the sad story Prince Cresto and Princess Mara moved slowly up the
isle and shook hands and shed tears of sympathy over his sad fate. Terah
asked them to dry their eyes and be happy, for he could see his bride
with them now just as lovely, young and happy as our beautiful Kezia was
this moment. The Prince and stately Mara moved down to the door, and all
the guests started for home, where a great feast was all ready for them.
Prince Cresto saw a tribe of enemies below. He closed the massive doors
and kept the great crowd inside.

“My poor brothers and sisters, keep close to me as you can, for a wicked
tribe is here to kill us. I have a secret gold mine near here that in
some unknown way they have discovered. That casket of jewels with the
others we all have in our possession, will hire us a ship at Mandavee.
Rich Jews own many big ships there and will do anything for money. I
will direct you to a secret door in the rear where we all can escape.”

They all followed the prince to the door. The Doctor dashed away from
his folks to save the poor patients. Kezia ran after him, crying,
saying, “I will die with you! I would rather die than ever be parted
from you.”

Pootana’s spy saw him and drew his bright new sword on the Doctor. The
Doctor quickly caught his wrist and broke his arm in the struggle. Then
ran the blade through the wicked black heart of the Indian.

“Come quickly, Kezia dear, we must get to the Springs at once. Darling
child, why didn’t you fly with father and mother, where you would be
safe from all danger? My wife, my love, forgive me for not going with
you while I could escape. I see it is wicked King Pootana and his fierce
tribe, who worship the goddess Kali, otherwise known as Devi or Durga,
the Hindu goddess of destruction, and consort of Siva.”

Persus took the spy’s new sword and ran to the head of the army, he and
his men killing one-third of the enemy’s men. Devi whispered to Pootana
to kill Persus and steal Kezia. King Pootana saw the lovely bride in the
distance and sent his men to capture her. She was caught and carried to
their king, fainting as they took her. Persus fought like mad. Pootana’s
men outnumbered his ten to one. Pootana took lovely Kezia for his own
bride. This cruel, ugly, black Indian held the fair Egyptian bride in
his arms, then told Persus he had won a sweet, handsome, white bride as
well as his father’s gold. Persus was permitted to kiss Kezia good-bye.
As the young husband held his bride in his arms, he quickly reached for
his dagger—he always carried one,—and plunged it in Kezia’s soft white
breast. She fell forward and died in her husband’s arms without a
pain—there was a wonderful poison on the dagger that killed instantly.
Doctor Persus had discovered this strange poison in a flower of the
forest. The king reached for the dagger—not knowing it was poisoned—and
the Doctor thrust it through his heart, the black king died at his feet.
The revengeful black god Siva and his Hindu goddess Kali now influenced
the minds of the rest of the king’s tribe to take the Doctor prisoner.
The men obeyed Siva, also carried all the gold and jewels they could
find in his home away. Later the tribe marched with Persus to Mandavee.
The men gave the Prince of Mandavee part of the gold and jewels to put
our poor Doctor in a narrow cell half filled with dirty water from the
Arabian sea,—this was against the laws of India, all men had a right to
protect their family and property. Our poor, good, innocent Doctor was
taken a prisoner on his own land trying to protect his wife. Our forlorn
Doctor was cold, ill and hungry; slaves would abuse him shamefully when
he would ask for food and water. Later Terah, the priest, came to the
prison; he had walked all the way disguised as a slave. They cast him in
the same cell, or little dungeon, and then told the poor Hindu to starve
to death with his master, not knowing he was a priest of high caste.
Terah took from his breast a bag of dates and nuts and bottle of wine.
Persus ate and drank a little, and handed it back to the dear, kind
priest.

“Persus, child, my guardian angel showed me clairvoyantly I would soon
be with my twin-soul. I will tell you the vision as I, an old man, saw
it. As I lingered a moment by the altar of roses, I saw my own long lost
bride in all her pure white robes, her lovely flowers and long white
lace veil, standing by my side, with her beautiful pink and white arms
full of pure fragrant lillies. My bride pictured me on a bier near the
altar. She scattered all her sweet flowers on my shrouded, then held up
a wonderful jeweled crown over a pure gold cross; then again showed me
clairvoyantly, a big sheet of black samite on which was written in white
letters showing plainly on the black, ‘Go quickly to Mandavee!’ The
letters vanished, then I saw, on the black sheet, yourself, on the right
hand of you I saw your Kezia in her bridal robes beckoning me to come to
you. I saw my own wife put her arms around your bride and smile. I knew
at once they were together on the astral plane. Doctor, did she die
peacefully?”

“Yes, dear father, I killed her without a pain. The Bloody Black King
took her for his own. I implored to just let me kiss her good bye. To my
surprise he did. I killed them both rather than see her live a life of
shame and constant misery. I could not live and know that she would be
his slave, then in her old age be killed by inches.”

“You did right to kill them both; for God made man to protect woman, if
it is just—in your case it was, it was just!

“Persus, my child, I came here eagerly to save your life. In three days
I will die, for it is my time to go. I heard a voice tell me so. They
told me the same again and again. I know it is true. As soon as I am
dead your band will put you in a deep trance. They will think we are
both dead and put us in one big bag, then throw us together into the
Arabian sea. You may have my cross and gold. Your angels will take you
out of this trance while in the sea; an old fisherman by the seashore
will take you to his home, if you make the sign of the cross; then press
his hand three times, firmly.”

The Doctor waited three days and every hour was heaven to them both;
they learned so much together. Our dear old seer died just the hour he
said he would. Persus got his money, dagger and clothes. Then a little
later he heard footsteps in the hall and at the same time felt himself
sinking into a trance. He found the old fisherman by the seashore Persus
went home with him. Many weary days he spent with the good old seaman
recovering from the sickness of the dungeon. Then he went back to the
noble Prince of Mandavee and proved his innocence. The good prince of
Mandavee took his tribe up the hills of Araville. Persus recaptured his
father’s rich mineral possession and gave the prince half of all he had.
The Doctor became a famous author, and died a priest in the very temple
where he was married. Many hundred years have passed and still his books
are read all over the world. The story of Persus has taught the world
that many innocent souls have been cast into prison for the sake of
their money, then shamefully abused. It is a terrible, cowardly crime to
abuse a person deprived of their liberty. If we wrong or abuse others,
God will punish us severely later. How beautiful it is to treat humanity
lovingly and tenderly at all times. Prince Cresto, with his wife and
daughter, met the remainder of his own tribe that escaped from Lytton
Springs. The Black King had killed most of Prince Cresto’s men. After
experiencing great difficulties we managed to get to Mandavee, then
hired a big ship and set out to sea. That night the ship sailed
slowly—sailed away from all that was dear to them. They left sunny old
India with broken hearts. Their lives would never be safe there after
they discovered the gold mine. Big fish eat up the little ones on the
hills of India; one king robs the other. There is no such thing as the
equality of man there. After a long voyage they rested a few months at
the Philippines. They formed classes and taught their religion. Most of
the natives believed the same as they did. Later they bought the old
ship from the cold-hearted Jew. One man owned as much of the boat as the
other did; they were all one family and shared alike. Poor Princess Mara
and Sita had charge of the casket, and all the valuable jewels, only
half of the jewels had been sold. They left the Jew and his crew on the
island and set sail again. The old ship seemed like home then for it was
their very own. In a few weeks they came to a narrow neck of land,—that
which joins the two Americas,—which was pierced by a narrow strait of
water. The two massive rocks that towered above them on either side as
they passed through made them feel how infinite God was and how finite
man. Scarcely had they passed through safely when a sound deafened them;
a noise like a peal of thunder rent the air. The ship trembled like an
aspen leaf from prow to stern. They looked back. The mighty rocks had
clashed together and filled the strait of water with rocks and gravel.
They bowed their heads and thanked God for His love and protection. They
sailed on to the Gulf of Mexico and entered the harbor of New Orleans.
It was so low there, they left and sailed up the Mississippi river, then
up the Escawtawpa. Here they sailed into a raft of logs; the old boat
was wrecked, every person sank in an awful storm, excepting two young
slaves of the tribe. They have handed this story down from one tribe to
another—from father to son to this day.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER VI.

               “And God will make divinely real
               The highest forms of their ideal.”—Chapin.


Ruth was a lovely, tall, dark-eyed, Southern girl. Her family and most
intimate friends called her Dolly. She had heavy, light brown, long,
curly hair, that hung below her waist in six perfect curls. Doll was
very slender and graceful, her mouth a perfect cupid’s bow, her head
well poised, and small. Her most charming feature was her large,
wonderful, soft brown eyes. Everyone loved those lovely eyes. The soul
seemed to express her thoughts, and yearnings through those eyes. Ruth
was a lovely Christian and inherited her mother’s sweet, cheerful, sunny
disposition. She also was an exquisite violinist, and could paint,
sketch and cook. Our heroine is just sweet sixteen. Ruth is sitting by a
big window watching an awful southern storm rising from the Gulf of
Mexico. She and her young companion, Cathy de Bathe had been dear
friends and schoolmates. The girls were now visiting Ruth’s grand
parents in Mississippi. It had been raining for days in Escawtawpa,—a
small country town on the Escawtawpa river. The Indians and darkies
called this strange river haunted; this is a fact too. Every night weird
music came from the river bed. The ghostly musicians had chosen the
large hollow reeds for their musical instruments. It sounded as if they
were practicing the scales on a golden, magical, flute. This weird music
would often end at sunrise in a low, sad funeral dirge. People came from
all over the world and hired darkies to row them out at night to hear
and investigate these strange magical sounds. The music became more
weird and much louder about midnight. Ruth and Cathy often wondered if
the river was truly haunted.

One calm, beautiful night, while she was sleeping soundly, Ruth dreamed
her soul was transported to another world. She dreamed this beautiful
world was Mars. It was a world of love and romance instead of war. The
dream seemed real as life. At first she was surprised to find herself
carried as if by magic so quickly and safely through space to this
lovely new world,—it seemed like a lover’s paradise. This strange new
world was the world of the soul. Ruth wondered how she came there. As
she looked around she saw a tall, dark, handsome young stranger, who
spoke, smiled, and bowed to poor little surprised Ruth. He was very
courteous and gently told her that once, he was an ancient Indian
prince. He said an old Indian living near her grandfather’s home would
tell her the same truth, and this would prove that all he said was true,
and no dream at all. “Remember, Ruth, many dreams are true and real—soul
facts. A wicked Black King drove us away from India many years ago and
captured my son with his lovely bride, and took all our wealth except a
few jewels. Mara was then my princess yet did not belong to me, and is
now happy with her twin soul. They are now wealthy and live in Neptune.
We made a mistake then, as many do now in marrying the person not
intended for us. In India we taught the immortality of the soul. This
wicked and powerful King Pootana did not believe in the Communion of
Saints or would not permit it to be taught, if he could help it. We
taught one God, one love, one wife; he had many wives in those days. He
killed good priests. His soul now suffers in Purgatory, and will for
some time. My tribe and myself were drowned in a terrible storm on the
river Escawtawpa.”

“O! Prince Cresto, an old negro we call Aunt Mary told grandma this same
story. She said it was all true, but we all laughed at her. Is it a real
fact?”

“Yes, child. I can remember the storm, and the rain pouring down on us,
how terrible it seems now. The old raft sank slowly down, down, to our
death. On that very spot where our ship sank these magical reeds grew.
In love and immortal sympathy and pity they sway, they sing their sad
doleful hymns. These musical sounds are the sobs and groans of a great
tribe mourning for their Prince and loved ones.”

“I have often dreamed of you, Prince Cresto, and now I see you face to
face. Are you truly alive?”

“Yes, I am a real live man; asking you if you would like to visit some
of the scenes and wonderful sights in Mars, would you, Ruth?”

“I would love to!”

Cresto (they have no titles in Mars) sent a mental wireless message, and
soon a boy came with a lovely little airship called “The Golden
Butterfly.”

“Oh! how lovely! We are sailing far above the Martians,” Ruth cried. The
air was pure and bracing, the ride very exhilarating. They descended
slowly—for Ruth was afraid to descend; the lovely little airship
alighted in a public park. Many little children were playing here. She
saw lovers strolling down the walks in perfect peace and happiness.
There were lovely beds of flowers everywhere. They soon came to a
beautiful blue lake. On this lake they saw pretty, tiny boats with large
white swans, beautifully carved, in front. These little boats, at a
distance, looked like graceful, white swans; couples that row in these
boats seemed to be lovers.

“O! Cresto, what perfect little love-boats!”

“Ruth, the couples in the boats are soul-mates, they have been married
for years, and will always be lovers.”

The longer they had lived together the more devoted they seemed. Many
were swimming; all seemed very fond of the water. Cresto took her to the
immense bath house, hired suits; they went into the plunge first, then
to the lake outside. No one called him Prince Cresto over there. No one
can take a title or any money to another planet. They are all brothers
and sisters, all one big family, all humble and Christlike, yet they
seem to have plenty to live on. They are very busy and happy; they all
play as much as they work, and study. Ruth could swim well and
gracefully on earth, so it did not take her long to swim there.

“Ruth, when we learn to swim or dance well on earth, we can do the same
on any planet. If we can learn to sing and become great musicians on
earth we never forget it. We begin here just where we left off on earth.
We never go backward, but forward—unless we are punished for some sin.”

“Cresto, I wish we could go and visit other places of amusement?”

They walked on and on, each spot seemed a garden of Eden. They often saw
lovely angels—always two together.

“Ruth, these couples are spirit mates. I suppose they look strange to
you, for they do not fight or get divorces here; they are contented and
are industrious.”

Ruth soon learned that they carried on their daily conversation by
thought transference. They also talk the same as we do and sing the same
as we do when together, when parted they use thought transference—for
husbands go to work there and wives attend to the home as on earth.

“If our loved ones visit another planet we can send them messages
quickly, by thought transference. This can be done on earth or anywhere.
Ruth, thought transference is only reading another’s thoughts and
answering mentally.”

“Cresto, what a wonderful fairyland Mars is! I hear beautiful music
everywhere, everyone singing in perfect love and harmony, their sweet,
dear voices are soft, tender and melodious. Oh, I am in a magic world of
love, music and beauty. Mars is a world of love and peace instead of
war.”

“We think too much of our lives and sweethearts to ever go to war. War
is a sin. All trouble could be settled by arbitration on earth. We only
fight to protect dying souls on your planet. This is a mental fight to
protect our loved ones from enemies. Ruth, my dear child, can you guess
who I am? After seeing all you have just seen?”

“No, Cresto, I can not!”

“You are only a child, but so highly educated you can understand, you
are my other half, my twin-soul, my very own. I have watched over you
and protected you since your birth. Darling, I would not have been
parted from you so long, if I had not married poor Princess Mara for her
wealth and caste. I have suffered a thousandfold for my ignorance,
selfishness, and sin. It is a sin to marry without love. All true
marriages must be founded on love and honor. Love without honor and
respect is only misery. Ruth, my darling child, do you trust me now?”

“Yes, I do Cresto dear, I love you, for you seem to be the soul of
honor. You are my ideal of a gentleman. I never have had a lover in all
my life. I don’t like the young men on earth. I do not know why.”

“You are only a child and are too young yet.”

“Cresto, I long to give up my life to good, instead of accepting the
attentions of admirers as other young women do. I don’t care for
society, it is only wasting my time away.”

“Please make me one promise, in answering this question, I know you will
not break your word. Which will you choose: Society and idleness, or
doing good and hard study? Please do not let me influence you, do as you
please. There is no sin in going into the social life if you do not
wrong any one.”

“I choose to do good. I long to develop my mind and help others.”

“Dear, if that is your choice, we will begin our good work now. My
darling doll if you will fast and pray for a few days I will take you to
Purgatory. I only take you so you can prevent others from going there.
Just so you can save lost souls. I take you only to show you how cruel,
wicked, heartless, souls suffer. My dear, pray sincerely and try to fast
until I see you again. There are no children in Purgatory, love. I will
protect you and keep you close to my side. Many saints will go with
us,—for it is not safe to go alone. Darling, if you see the underworld
as it is, you will be better able to do good and prevent others from
going there. First, my pet, promise to forgive me for taking your pure,
sweet soul to such a place? O! you don’t answer me? I will keep you here
in Mars until you do, love.”

“Yes, I forgive, I want to go. It will be a wonderful new lesson for me
to go. I can hardly wait for the time to come. Please take me now.”

“No, dear, you must fast and pray first. I will get angels to protect
us. I must make everything safe for our visit there. Please light all
your candles after I take you home. Pray, go into the silence; later I
will return for you.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER VII.

                    “Then star nor sun shall waken,
                      Nor any change of light;
                    Nor sound of waters shaken
                      Nor any sound or sight.
                    Nor wintry leaves or vernal
                      Nor days nor things diurnal;
                    Only the sleep eternal
                      In an eternal night.”


Ruth had fasted for three days. All she drank was a cup of warm milk
twice a day—and drank this very slowly. The third night after saying her
prayers she fell into a sound sleep. It was darkest midnight when
Cresto, with many of his friends, came to protect Ruth. All were dressed
in disguise—in long black robes. Ruth gradually felt her soul gently and
silently carried away in space to the underworld.

“Cresto, dear, were you ever in this awful, dismal, dark, place before?”

“Yes, dear, all souls from earth are taken here at death and judged. I
was here a few days until I was judged for every act I ever did. No soul
can escape this court. Darling girl, when you are taken here, I will
come with you. I beg you to live such a perfect Christian life that our
dear judges will not keep you long. Some stay thousands of years in this
one place, others, only a few days. Christ descended and remained here
two days Himself. He was perfect. The third day Our Lord ascended up to
Heaven. He rose in great power and glory. Dear Ruth, if you follow in
His footsteps, you need not fear to go where He has been. Jesus has
surveyed the narrow road that leads to the gates of Heaven. He is the
one who will light the way for us. Here our Lord and His hosts of
angels, judge the living and the dead. Christ and His own followers have
been judged here, so that they may be just to the wicked. He obeys and
keeps all laws that He commands us to keep. This is Divine justice to
all. Praise His Holy name. He is most Divine! We are one universal
family and every soul is treated alike. We all get our reward here,
whether it is good or evil. Hades is surrounded on all sides by awful,
grim, ghastly, rivers of woe. Millions upon millions of firm, silent
boatmen carry the dead here to be judged. They row you safely and
silently to the great wide gates of Sheol, these cold stone gates are
broad and high. Justice alone holds the keys. Souls at death cannot
fly—they gradually learn to later. Those living here are all
earth-bound. Sin has weakened their souls to such an extent that they
cannot fly, and have not life enough to try. Constant sin is slow death
to the soul. Here life has death for a neighbor. The great gates of
Purgatory are daily and nightly thronged with millions and millions of
angel guests. Just as the earthly prison should be thronged to see that
justice rules! It is our business to see that no innocent soul stays in
prison on earth. No one should be cast into prison on circumstantial
evidence; this is an awful crime. The prisons on earth should be as good
and just as the ones are in Purgatory, but they are not. You can change
the laws and make them so in time if the people of earth all work hard.
To understand Heaven and Hades we must study the last two chapters in
the Bible. Read Revelations 22:15. Study all of Revelations.”

They walked on deeper into the woods of lonely darkness. It was misty.
The angry dark gray clouds above them would not admit a ray of sunlight.
We saw great monsters among the cold gray rocks; in the wide crevices
were huge, long, green serpents, with mad, fiery red eyes. These snakes
were the companions of low men and women, of drunkards, gluttons, and
former prostitutes. Snakes and all ugly animals have ugly thoughts. They
are on a low mental plane.

“Ruth, dear, your sweet disposition, your constant prayers, have made
your face beautiful. Some of these poor, ill, low, ugly, fallen women
tried to console themselves with ugly dogs and cats on earth. There were
no babies, or children in Hades to pet, and as these poor, half clad,
half starved women would try to pet these dogs, they would growl and
snarl and bite them. All animals were cross; there was no love or
harmony there.”

“Cresto, why are these hungry dogs and snakes with these poor, sad, ugly
men and women?”

“Dear, like seeks like; love attracts love; enemies that hate each other
most, must live together. The wonderful power of gravitation draws them
together. Look well, dear, and remember the result of hate. It is as
strong to attract as love is. All animals have souls and thoughts the
same as we have, only they are undeveloped. Men and women having the
same thoughts as animals and snakes are attracted to each other; here is
another lesson on the law of gravitation. It develops the soul more to
adopt children instead of dogs or cats. The soul of a child is Divine.
Every one must live in the soul world or live in this underworld to
suffer with dangerous animals in Purgatory, until developed out of this
state. It takes intelligence, strength and energy to get out of
Purgatory. Science proves this. You see, dear, how easy it is to get
here? How hard to get out?”

As they went deeper and deeper into the lonely forest they saw a large,
filthy, dead sea covered over with green slime. The odor from this
stagnant water made them all ill.

“The only fish here is the ugly octopus. These poor, weary, tired men
and women catch them and cook them on the rocks and eat them.”

They did not see any fruit in the forest. These folks were too angry and
lazy to cultivate the ground or make the most of their punishment. All
they wanted was revenge and an excuse to get out of work. They all
seemed to be cowards and indolent. The awful rivers and lakes were green
and slimy. The air was cold, misty and damp all the time. No stars or
moon mingled in the dark gray clouds above. There were no flowers or
birds or lovers here. The land was full of muddy green swamps. They saw
them bare-footed, walking in the mud up to their knees. Some took on
each other’s conditions; all looked mean, blue, cross and ugly; they
would fight, groan, swear and curse one another. We could not find any
real love there. It was all cruel hate. Angels often came down when they
were fighting to part them. Then some would cling to their robes and
hold on like mad men. An electric shock from these high angels’ minds
would throw them onto the ground again. O! the power of mind or soul!
Every time they would hurt or abuse another, they were forced to stay
another day in Purgatory. Men or women who had tortured or helped in any
way to torture any prisoner or helpless child or insane person, or any
one in their power on earth, were tortured seven-fold there; their
innocent victims were permitted to come here and torture them. This is a
just law and is followed out to the letter in the underworld. One cannot
escape justice any more than they can escape life. We all live on and on
whether we go to Heaven or Hades.

“Ruth, here is another proof that the wicked are punished just as the
Bible teaches. Here in this underworld the souls of the wicked groan and
moan and are tormented day and night. Here the awful blackness seemed
touched and blended with green and blue fire, the air was poisoned with
awful furies. Ugly long, yellow and black, fiery-eyed, serpents are
everywhere driving the inhabitants here and there, ‘there was no rest
for the wicked.’”

The serpents were even climbing the trees. The trees all looked dead,
old and withered. All the men and women seemed lost; not one could find
their loved ones. All were parted! All lonely! Their only companions
were those they hated most. Many had been in this awful place for years
and years. Many would stay years longer, because they had made slaves of
lovely young girls. These poor, helpless girls had gone on to Heaven,
and the men that ruined them were still suffering here. They suffered
more than their former victims ever did. Ruth was so glad to see these
men suffering. Young girls have a right to honor and sacred love and
homes. These men and women that once sold sweet, lovely young girls for
money, prayed for death; but there is no death in Hades! It was awful to
see these souls live on and on to suffer and groan from remorse of
conscience. There would be no justice without this great mighty
underworld court, or Purgatory. The sins and crimes of darkness, of all
the universe, are concentrated here. This is a terrible and dismal
region of darkness, misery, despair and sorrow! Hades is a place in
space down in the opposite direction from Heaven. It is God’s mighty
Court of Justice. There is no money or bail given there. You cannot
bribe the Judge or jury. Their souls are laid bare! Their hearts and
very thoughts are judged. All their past acts are recorded. Justice
reigns supreme. Every act and thought is pictured in space. Every sound
ascends and is recorded by our angels. Science is a perfect
photographer. All acts and thoughts are retained on the lens of the
mind.

“Cresto, is that why these men and women seem so insane?”

“Yes, dear, their minds are all darkness from sin and ignorance.”

“Cresto, please take me home out into the fresh air, I cannot stand
their awful looks and misery.”

“Come, we will go at once. I should have taken you back sooner.”

“O! what happiness to fly from darkest Purgatory, out into God’s lovely
star light. To soar like a free bird in the sweet, pure fresh air. What
a contrast from that awful place!”

“Ruth, are you not glad you have chosen missionary work instead of
idleness?”

“Yes, dear, from now on I shall be perfectly happy in doing good. I must
commence my work at once. Now is the time. How lovely it is to float
like this among the stars. Away in space! To float like a bird among the
stars and clouds is perfect ecstacy! Each star looks like big, bright
double balls of light; one was blue, one was white. Cresto, this is a
heavenly sight!”

“My darling, I will hold you closer to my heart and fly on and on with
you just to please you. My greatest happiness is in seeing you happy.
All you need to do is to put your lovely head on my breast, and take
long, deep breaths.”

“Darling, how grateful I am to you, Cresto, dear, to be able to float as
the angels do with you, just for tonight. O! this lovely, perfect night.
Cresto, I love you!”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                             CHAPTER VIII.

           “All night she dreamed and wondered with the light
           Her lover came—and then she understood
           The purpose of her being. Life was good,
           And all the world seemed bright
           And nothing was, but right.”

                                         —Ella Wheeler Wilcox.


The next morning, early at dawn, she saw this Indian prince
clairvoyantly. At first she could not believe her eyes! She thought the
trip to Mars and Purgatory only a dream.

“Cresto, are you a true, living soul? Was my awful dream last night all
true?”

“Yes, poor child, your dream was all more than true. Our souls often
travel together. It is a fact that our souls can travel, while our
bodies sleep. Love, there is no limit to the soul’s flight. Our souls
are made in the image of God. Doll, long ago I was once a real, live
Indian prince. I came from another star to watch over you and protect
you, dear. Dreams are often true. I have given you many facts in dreams.
I will also develop you to a higher degree clairvoyantly. You hear me
now, love, clairaudiently. True visions from the other world will often
be revealed to you. Ruth, please remember all that I reveal to you in
visions, dreams, or strong impressions will be real facts,—soul facts. I
develop you to help you make poor, sorrowing humanity happy and teach
you to help others to higher planes.”

“Cresto, why do you spend so much time with me?”

“Dear, I will always be with you. I am your twin-soul—your soul-mate. I
am your other half. Darling child, without you there is no life or
happiness. You are all my very own, my twin-soul. God has made us one. I
love you with all my heart and life! I will often take your soul away in
vision to visit and enjoy other planets. Souls from other stars will
come to teach you and reveal beautiful facts to you. We will help you to
keep busy, happy and content, dove. Ruth all things are dual—all souls
dual. My darling, do you love me?”

“Yes, dear, I love you. I do not know why this new love is so strange to
me, so different from anything I ever heard of or thought of. Cresto, am
I the first mortal ever loved by a spirit? Is this a real fact or am I
still dreaming? Please, dear, tell me?”

“Ruth, do you hear me?”

“Yes, I do?”

“Are you sure?”

“I am positive, Cresto.”

“Now, do you see me?”

“Yes, I see you.”

“My own darling little angel, kiss me.”

Ruth felt his warm kisses on her lovely red lips.

“Now, dear, if you hear me, and see me, and feel my kisses, don’t you
know that I live?”

“I know now that it is true!”

“Doll, you are all my very own. You are the complement of my self-love.
Dearest, there is no individual spirit, male or female, exists without
its one eternal complement. The law of attraction will sooner or later
bring them together. Our souls have always been brought together.
According to science we were once two tiny flames of light. You were a
dim, tiny, soft, white light. I was the stronger and brighter one. We
could not be parted then. Your soul was then effeminate, my own always
masculine. Dearest child, you will always be a lady, I a gentleman—man
through eternity. We had no bodies then, we were all soul, dear. Just
two little lights, imprisoned with a tiny globe of light, floating in a
circle near the lovely, bright Pleiades. So the dear angels could watch
over us and protect our souls. They have protected us ever since and
always will, dear. Some day, darling, we will protect others. There is
lots of work to do in our Master’s vineyard. We will love to work
together; all angels do. In Heaven and all other stars where true
soul-mates are united in holy marriage, they are called angels. In Mars
we almost always see the two together. Sweetheart, our souls were living
and shining in space together for centuries. All others are the same.
God loves us more than we love Him. Our souls are very dear and can
never, never be lost—that is an impossibility. We are one with Our
Father in Heaven. Love, He has made us one for our immortal happiness.
Our souls crave and constantly pray for eternal loving companionship.
You are mine, for you and I, dear, were in embryo in a globe of light,
blended in harmony, and kept together by magnetism for our own
protection; until the angels were sure our souls were perfect and would
be immortal. Our immortality is very expensive, let us prize it and be
grateful, prayerful and always happy. After our souls become very
sensitive, strong, and highly magnetized, we are carried to earth and
become human for the first time. All the rest of the time, our souls
have been taking on immortality, and gradually growing. God created us,
then magnetized us, in the beginning so we could find each other, and be
united now. I have found you again, love, by the law of attraction.
Dear, I will explain more clearly that angels send these sacred little
twin-souls encased in globes of light to your earth by electricity on
waves of ether through the heavens, down, down, safely to earth to live
in mortal forms in order that we may obtain experience and knowledge.
You are my immortal wife, my only love from this day on. Your dear
guardian angel left you in America and me in India. Dear, angels sent
the stork from door to door with you; mothers were all too busy to keep
you long, they did not know your value. Your mother longed and prayed
for a child just like you. She has loved you and kept you close to her
loving heart for sixteen years. Dear, I can see a light around your
sweet, pretty head. Our minds or souls are still light. If mortals could
only see the light. Many can see it clairvoyantly. Good night.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER IX.


A year has passed away. Ruth has not heard from Cresto, or even dreamed
of him. All this time she has been doing all the good she could with her
pen and dear old violin. Cathy de Bathe had gone to California to study
music. Aunt Mary had just brought Ruth a letter from Cathy.

“Here, honey, is a fat letter from youah sweetheart, Miss Ruth.”

“Thank you, Aunt Mary.”


“My Own Darling Ruth:

I was so glad to get your last letter. I am very sorry you do not have
any more visions. I do. I keep it a secret, for my husband and his folks
are all Adventists and do not believe as you and I do.

Forgive me, dear, for not telling you of my marriage before. I married
for love and money; all California girls do. We are not so sweet and
good as you are. My young husband is tall and handsome, with brown eyes,
light curly hair, and weighs over two hundred pounds. You see, my dear,
he is a dainty little California boy. His name is Addison MacRay.
Addison gave me a lovely, modern bungalow. We have a smooth, velvety
lawn in front. A great variety of hanging ferns on our large stone front
porch; around this porch are many kinds of lovely roses, violets, ferns
and other plants. There are two broad stone steps; on either side of the
steps are massive square pillars on each of which is a drooping tropical
plant. There is a great, large oak door, with four pretty, small
windows. We have a long living room, with a sturdy old mission
fireplace. Addison bought beautiful furniture for every room. There is a
large dining room, and a cute little breakfast room. Our room is a
dream—all in blue and white. Off from our little breakfast room is a
large, sunny aviary filled with canary birds that sing all day long. My
husband bought the birds in Paris. We have fruit, flowers and vegetables
growing the year round back of our home. We gather fruit and flowers
every day. We have imported chickens, doves and horses. We drive in the
country every day. Please come and visit us for a few months. I want you
to enjoy our new home. Ruth, come and see it for yourself, I haven’t
time to tell you how beautiful it is. My dear, I have a few friends that
come to our home twice a week, just to investigate the immortality of
the soul. The name of our class is ‘The Divinity Club.’ I have two new
angels in my band, Asa and Ione. Asa said he used to weigh two hundred
pounds; now he only weighs seventy-five pounds. Now he and Ione have a
lovely home in Mars. His twin-soul, Ione, is sweet and just as pretty
and young as you are, Dolly dear. They both worship each other and look
alike; only Asa is much taller. Ione told me a man on Mars would be
eighty-three times stronger than a man on earth. And she said there was
plenty of water from the wonderful canals to supply every one. The red
planet, Mars, is very interesting to me. Do you know much about it?
Please tell me all you know about it, will you, dear?


                                        Lovingly,

                                             CATHY MACRAY.

P. S.—Please write soon, love.”


Addison and Cathy MacRay were the happiest couple in California, they
were going to visit friends on Catalina Island.

“Darling Addison, I hate to leave our new bungalow even to visit our
best friends.”

At San Pedro they found passageway on the boat Cabrillo. The water was
calm and brilliantly blue. They enjoyed watching the silvery flying fish
on the way. Their friends were at the pier to meet them, Artemus Dawson,
the inventor, Lemanuel Schwarze, Flora Thurston and her daughter and son
were in the party, Ana Marie Thurston was pretty, lively and full of
fun. Mr. Dawson drove slowly up the steep hill to his quaint little
home. All were tired and retired early. All of the guests were up early
the next morning and ready to view the submarine gardens. Mr. Dawson
owned a wonderful glass bottom boat—his own invention. Artemus used
electricity as motive power. By touching a key the boat shot forward
through the foam, producing strains of music.

They looked down through the glass and saw every variety of fish—even
gold fish. It was a fairyland of beauty, and we wondered if these fish
had intelligence. These gardens are wonderful. They enjoyed their beds
of stone and lovely green, lacy blankets of soft, fluffy moss. Long,
hanging ferns grew from their castles of rock. God has made a beautiful
world for the fish to live in. The fish enjoy their wonderful homes.
They obey the laws of Nature, hence they still live in the garden of
Eden. The ugly fish were not jealous of the beautiful gold fish. They
seemed to enjoy each other’s society and live in harmony. How could they
fight in such beautiful gardens? They enjoyed viewing these lovely
gardens of the sea until nearly sun down. By the time they reached home
they were all tired out.

Ana Marie Thurston was a sweet, cheerful little blonde. She resembled
her father, who was killed for the money he possessed when she was a
small child. Albert Thurston was a psychic before he was killed. Ana
Marie had a beautiful sister, who died in New Orleans at the age of
fourteen. Eva Thurston was dark, tall and beautiful. Eva and her father
developed Ana Marie until she was a wonderful psychic. Mrs. Thurston and
Ana Marie were broken hearted when Eva died.

Her friends began to plead with little Ana Marie to go into a trance, or
see clairvoyantly for them. “My father and Eva tell me I can go into a
trance and then I must retire.”

All wrote down everything she said. Ana Marie was controlled by her
sweet, pretty sister Eva. “I am Eva, and my little sister will not
remember a word I say, so please tell her all I say?”

“Eva, dear, we will write every word and show her the notes.”

“Thank you. Please tell my little sister that my father and I love her
and mamma more than ever. My father and I live in Mars now. I died a
true Catholic. The first angel I saw was my father and his sweet
companion. Mamma in a few years you and sister will get married and be
happy. Mamma, please don’t cry so; it hurts us and ruins your own
health. We are with you the same as ever, and are not dead at all.

“Mr. Dawson, your mother, Mary Dawson, is here and sends you all her
love.

“Mrs. Schwarze, your son George is here. He says he is in a fine school
at Lastriste, a large city in Mars. He loves his school and companions.

“Dear Cathy, I see many angels, with bright lights, around you and your
husband. Eno, Cresto, Daisy, Asa and Ione are here. Daisy is a lovely
blonde, with very large blue eyes; she has charge of many circles in
California. Daisy is bright and cheerful, and does a great deal of good
in the world. She lives with her grandparents in a lovely home in Mars.
This home is a wonderful mansion, all stone, and furnished elegantly.
She is a wonderful little artist. Her home is filled with beautiful
paintings that she has produced by herself. She inspires many slightly
talented people on earth to paint wonderfully. Daisy used to visit Cathy
often. Once she gave Cathy a lovely pearl ring. Cathy saw this lovely
ring, clairvoyantly.”

“I do not know how to thank you for that beautiful ring, now, Daisy
dear, please keep it for me until I go over there.”

“I will, dear Cathy. Cresto wants to talk to you now.”

“Cathy, it will pay you to go home in a month. Pack your trunk again and
visit your friend, Ruth. In a few months she will be killed by fear or
lightning, in a terrible storm. The child needs you there, later you
will need her; then she and I will come back and protect and help you.
Can she go, Addison?”

“She may go as soon as we get home. I must go and look after my mines,
anyway.”

“Addison, you will find a rich gold mine, one mile east of the one you
own now. Keep that mine all for your own. I give that to you for your
kindness to Ruth.”

“O, Cresto, I thank you with all my heart! I promise to go to Ruth as
soon as you want me to.”

“Enjoy your visit here first.”

As Daisy loved painting, Ione loved poetry. The poetess began in stately
verse,

          “I have fed upon manna from heaven above;
          Have tasted the fruit of a wonderful love;
          I have looked on a land where the sun ever beams,
          And talked with the angels in mystical dreams;
          And though some visions may die in their birth,
          They still leave the trail of their glory on earth.”

Ione read us other poems she had composed. Daisy asked if any of the
clairvoyants could tell the color of their new dresses? Cathy could see
that Daisy wore a pale blue silk, with fine lace trimming; Ione a light
yellow silk, trimmed in heavy, rich lace. Both wore rich jewels and
golden sandals. The maidens from Mars were beautiful, and had long heavy
golden hair. They wore lace undergarments of almost cobweb-like
delicacy, so very fine that it cannot be pictured or imagined. Long
white opera cloaks swept from their dresses. Their snowy, soft white
veils looked like floating clouds in the sunshine. Daisy wore daisies in
her golden hair and at her waist. She was a perfect saint and did all
the good she could on earth. We all adored her. Daisy said there are no
hats in Mars, to make the hair come out; they never wear or make corsets
or high heels. There are no shoes there. They dress beautifully, with
long robes, jewels, crowns, laces and sandals. They do not wear
stockings. There are no fat, ill men or women there. They only eat one
meal a day, and have not time to grow stout. Cresto now told Addison
MacRay all his past. Addison was converted that night. He saw many
bright lights.

“Now that I have told you facts about your past, I will tell you some
facts about Mars: Mars is a land of beauty—a land of love and sunshine,
and music and flowers. We have two softly lighted moons, and many large,
bright stars. We have no dark nights, our nights are only soft
twilights. Our planet appears red from the earth, for we have more
sunlight, more moonlight and electricity. We have our seasons the same
as you have, but our days are longer than yours. Many of our flowers and
vegetables are red in color. Our wonderful electric lights appear red
from your world—they are all colors.

“I weighed over two hundred pounds on earth, now I weigh seventy-five.
We do not need any superfluous fat here. We must be very light and
intelligent in order to fly. We float in the clouds and swim in real
water; dance, laugh, ride, talk, and sing in the same manner as you do.
As a soul advances from star to star, each one has a grand surprise
awaiting them. I was surprised and happy to find out I could learn to
float after my resurrection, and to know God has made an immortal
companion for each one of us. Think of such infinite love! Adam and Eve
were soul-mates. I soon found out here there was no eternal Hell. Some
of the places in Purgatory are as terror-striking. After death, if one
has lived a life of sin or idleness, he is cast into prison in Purgatory
and bound and chained down for years away from all his loved ones. No
one is kept in prison after death unless that person deserves to suffer.

“Many of my old friends are now living happy with their twin-souls in
Venus, Mars and other stars. I love to hear them tell me of their homes
and work. Gentlemen in other planets never wear beards, as it takes
their mental strength; but they can send their double—a picture only—and
appear with beards the same as in earth life. We have about one thousand
wonderful canals, and over one thousand oases with little farms on them.
Our great canals all have wonderful, large stone gates about every one
thousand miles, so we can control the water. After harvest is over we
let the water go back to the poles. The snow in winter keeps the beds of
the canals pure. In this way we can live in Mars over one thousand years
before we are transferred to a higher star. We must take good care of
our health. We pray and keep in harmony with Our Creator’s Divine mind
as near as possible. Our minds rule our physical condition. ‘As one
thinketh, so is he.’ We are eighty-three times stronger than our loved
ones on earth. Our atmosphere is pure and bracing and adapted entirely
to our use. It is hard work for us to breathe on your earth. Eva has
gone home to rest, while others take her place. All the conditions must
be perfect for us to converse with you. Earth-bound spirits can talk
longer, but they do not often give truths. It is a fact, we have all the
water we need. We have all the wealth and land we can use. We do not use
money, but give checks which amounts to the same thing. Every person
gets full wages for their work. There are no peculiar vegetables or men
on Mars, as has been stated in your papers. No immense eye grows to
watch over us. God rules all worlds with His mind and with the help of
His Holy angels. There is nothing crazy or odd where God rules. All
insanity, all strange vegetables and trees, etc., are in Purgatory, or
on earth. Awful things happen where ignorant souls disobey Our Lord and
sin. Good night.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                               CHAPTER X.

                  “I heard one night a whisper
                    Of an angel, sweet and fair,
                  Of a glorious, beautiful treasure,
                    Of a lovely child of care.

                  She was mine, so the angels told me,
                    I knew it over there;
                  I heard it once in evening
                    So gentle and so rare.”

                                                 —Frank Burke.


Addison and Cathy were at home, having just returned from their trip,
when both heard this song in the air close to them.

“Cathy, dear, I hear the song, but I do not see the singer.”

“I saw Cresto singing near us.”

“Addison that is a song I composed for Ruth. Cathy, please do not wear
black at her grave, or mourn for her; she will be so happy with me.
Please try to remember this little verse:

                “There’s no destroying death frost here,
                  To nip the hope buds ere they bloom;
                The bridal tour is through the spheres;
                  Eternity the honeymoon.”

Addison, you will be too busy to get lonely while Cathy is gone. Your
new mine will keep you very busy, and in time will make you a very rich
man.”

“I will give one-half of all I have to my Cathy to do as she pleases
with.”

“You will both put the money in a good cause.”

A week later Ruth was holding Cathy in her arms. “O! Cathy, do you love
me so much as to leave your husband and lovely new bungalow, just to
visit me, dear?”

“Yes, Doll, I love you just that much, and a thousandfold more. Ruth,
dear, let’s spend a month in talking and laughing our heads off? I have
been so busy the rest and fun will do me good.”

“Cathy, I wish I could tell you how happy your visit has made me.”

“You dear little sweetheart, I love you!”

“My sweet Cathy!”

“Here is a letter, honey, for Mrs. Cathy MacRay.”

“O! thank you, Aunty Mary.”

“Ruth it is from my husband. I will read it to you, dear.”

“Please do if it is a love letter.”


“My Dear Cathy, my own darling wife:

I was very anxious to find out if Cresto knew about that mine. So after
I kissed you good bye I took the next train out to hunt up the mine. I
found it just where he said I would. I find the mine very rich. All he
said is true. Finding this mine is a wonderful test for me. Please have
a good time and enjoy your old friends. I will send you five hundred
dollars to enjoy with Ruth. So go where you please and be happy. I am
very busy now. I will write more next time. Please write soon. With love
and a thousand kisses,

                                        Your husband,

                                             ADDISON.”


“Ruth, isn’t he a darling to send me so much money without my ever
asking for a cent? We will spend this money together, my sweet Doll.
Tomorrow we will go to New Orleans and buy some pretty dresses and get
some new books. I am so tired I must go to sleep now.”

Ruth was only partly asleep when she heard this song in her room. Ione
had taught the sweet song to Cathy and she was now singing it softly.
The sweet tune was more beautiful than the words. She never had heard
such wonderful music:

 “I sat anticipating, yet awed, with that instinct alert,
 Dreading but longing for I knew not what;
 While he with the still swiftness, that bespeaks the All stirred
   within,
 Glided beside me;
 And with tender arms around and about me, like the will o’ the wisp,
 He drew me closely to his loving breast;
 And he kissed me, and he kissed me,

 In that gentle way,
 Till the magic thrills, one after another
 Opened wide all the closed up avenues of my soul.
 And in a delirium of ecstatic joy,
 My being heaved and heaved like the billows of an ocean roused from its
    rest,
 As if the elements had loosened their festive whirlwinds in a game of
    life and death;
 O love! O joy! Immortal bliss!
 This was a kiss, a kiss!
 That stirred the nerve fluids till they seemed like ruby wine aflame in
    my veins,
 And he grew so tender and loving, that it was as if an abyss had
    swallowed us up in its mystic fold;
 The hazardous past was forgotten,
 Faded away from the hallowed now;
 The present enough, O love’s tremulous ecstacy!
 Life was veiled in a rosy mist of enchanted bliss.
 O glory of glories!
 The fairies had transported us to their love paradise center, uniting
    our souls with a kiss! A kiss!”

Ione sang and prayed with the young girls until they fell asleep. Ione
was a perfect saint.

Cresto came again to Ruth that night in her dreams. I, Ruth, felt myself
being lifted up gently. I saw dear Cathy there below me sleeping
soundly. I wanted to take her with me. Cresto said she was not developed
enough to go this time. I reached out my arms to take her anyway.
Suddenly I was forced rapidly up, up, into terrible space again. Soon I
saw the light again. Cresto asked me if I would like to go with him and
see some of the beautiful homes and see more of the canals?

“Yes, I would love to go.”

“Doll, you may tell Cathy all about your visit, dear tomorrow, she is
not strong enough to be away so long.”

We stopped on one of the farms in Mars. I saw a lovely swimming pool, a
big, fine home, and many beautiful flowers in the front yard. Lovely
fruits and nuts, and vegetables in the back. Some of the tops of the
vegetables and many of the flowers were red. All the farms we saw looked
perfect. I soon saw that honest scientific farming was fashionable in
Mars.

“O Cresto, dear, our own Luther Burbank will be in his glory as soon as
he comes here.”

“Dear, there are many Burbanks in other worlds, and many Edisons, too.
The pure, cool, fresh air feels so refreshing and invigorating. Doll,
the mountains used to be very high here but for years the Martians have
cut the tops off to fill up the hollow places.”

“Our mountains are valuable cultivated hills now. There are only a few
high peaks left. The grass on the hills looked lighter than ours. All
flowers are more beautiful here and have more colors. Lovely birds sing
sweetly early and late. O! Cresto, look at those lovely bright rainbows
in the distance!”

“Darling, you see the lights of a beautiful city called Lastriste, it
looks from here as if it were many beautiful rainbows—the rainbows
looked as if they had a thousand different colors.”

I saw new shades of blue, green, violet and red, all mingled in one
grand, glorious glimmering light. It is all lighted by wonderful
electric lights. In this large city there are lovely flowers and trees
around the temples and each home. No two houses are close together, even
in the large cities.

“Ruth, my darling girl, the sun rises in beauty here and sets in more
grandeur and glory than you have just witnessed. Our sunlight is bright
and more vivacious than on earth. Our nights seem like twilight. Our
darkest midnight in summer is only a soft calm, gentle, subtle,
twilight. Our clouds float very high; we see each beautiful design
distinctly. Science and our many trees cause the rain to come
periodically. We have summer and winter, seed time and harvest, the same
as you do. We live a simple life here. We love one another and help each
other all we can. All those who own farms here are educated; they study
agriculture, and gradually work their way to wealth and happiness. A
farmer here is loved in the same manner as a banker or king on earth,
only more.

“Our temples, our schools are free. We are happy. We have no slaves.
Work is an honor here. Most commerce is carried on by means of these
wonderful connecting canals—many great minds have worked on these
perfect canals for years. These canals are the direct causes of our
great wealth. The rich could control the waters of the earth the same as
we do, in time. The money used for war alone would do it. Our big
airships, our boats, our cars, are all propelled by electrical energy.
Our airships carry from ten to one hundred people at once. All airships
can sail very high or low. Many airships are made just for two,—just for
lovers. I will order a little airship for two now, mentally. Darling,
you see I do not need to hunt up a telephone. All Martians carry their
own telephones in their heads. Long distance doesn’t cost us a cent.
There are about ten beautiful live salty oceans here. Remember, dear,
there is a natural law in all spiritual worlds. All water and land here
is now under perfect control. Now, babe, I will show you from our
airship the mighty net work of our vast great canals running from pole
to pole, from north to south. Near the center of Mars they also run from
east to west to irrigate little farms. High gates control these canals.
Our Martians are wonderful engineers. These great gates are raised by
wonderful machinery and operated by electricity. Doll, our public
schools are still more wonderful and more numerous than the canals. Why
not? We are a little higher than the earth; a little nearer Heaven.
Dear, we are traveling at the rate of 186,280 miles a second, about as
fast as wireless telegraphy. We are floating in space on electric waves
and can travel as fast as thought. Earth-bound souls cannot travel at
all beyond the first plane; they are wicked and have wasted their energy
in sin and idleness. Come, Doll, my sweet child, and put your pretty,
soft arms around my neck and kiss me, and I will show you the lovely
sacred temple where our own future marriage ceremony will be performed
as soon as you come home to me. Without law there is no happiness.”

“O Cresto, I wish I could always stay here in your arms.”

“Some day you can, pet. Your future happiness is very sacred to me,
love. Here is the temple.”

“O! darling, is it a real true church? What perfect Christians you must
be to build such a lovely high temple to worship in?”

“Darling child, there is no temple in any star, no matter how beautiful
or rich that temple may be, is perfect enough to worship God in. Doll,
next to my Father I love you—my own love, Doll! I hold the perfect
mating of two souls.

             “Through blended love, to be the sum of bliss;
             Long as Eternity rolls.

“My lovely child, my own Ruth, I will take you to my mother’s home and
introduce you to her; her name is Helios, my father’s name is Rupert; my
mother is a sweet little blonde. I am the perfect picture of my father.
She is keeping a few jewels I have bought for you, pet. The others you
may select for yourself when you come.”

We soon came to a lovely, large country home, with beautiful flowers and
a lawn. The side porch was covered with large black grapes. On the back
porch hung dark red grapes, among yellow and white roses. On the left is
a driveway, on the right is a small lake, a bath house, and a large
swimming pool. We found Helios feeding the graceful pet swans and ducks
on the lake. She was a pretty, dainty little woman, who led us into the
house to her private rooms. Helios took out a small casket from her
large cedar chest, and handed it to Cresto. He showed her a lovely
diamond engagement ring,—the stone was perfect; a rope of large pearls
with a brilliant ruby pendant. Cresto wound the pearls around Ruth’s
small, white neck several times; a marvelous little watch, inlaid with
emeralds and diamonds, Cresto’s picture was engraved inside, the watch
hung on a delicate, long gold chain; there were all kinds of perfect
rings, a handsome ruby bracelet, two big butterfly ruby pins, a
beautiful yellow amber colored diamond necklace; at last a stately, pure
gold crown inlaid with pink pearls and diamonds.

“Doll, I will place the tiara on your lovely head soon as you are my
bride.”

Cresto took a heavily chased bottle and asked me to drink to our health,
and wealth. It was a large, heavy quart-sized bottle. As soon as Cresto
removed the crystal stopper it foamed like liquid air. It was full of
electricity. It was sparkling and had the piquant taste of champagne.

“Babe, you will drink this as a tonic here instead of hot tea and
coffee. Doll, my love, please drink some more of this new ambrosia. We
have different kinds of ambrosia here, dear.”

“Cresto, I never tasted anything so delicious. We also have a liquid
copperas that is used as a tonic. It takes a highly educated chemist to
make these mineral beverages.”

The paper napkins were soft as silk—they burn all paper napkins and
handkerchiefs when soiled. They only eat one small meal a day. The bread
is slightly like our cakes in taste. It is airiated sweet bread, filled
with ground nuts and dried fruit.

“Ruth, my pet, we eat all kinds of delicious fresh fruit and nuts. We
drink milk and use lots of eggs. Sweetheart, you have been gone a long
time. I must take you home.”

We began to float upward in space. O! it is heaven to soar so high.

“We use mind power to float. The more intelligent the spirit, the better
they can soar,” said Cresto.

It was a strange new happiness to float in space with a man you respect
and worship.

      “It was long and long ago our love began;
      It is something all unmeasured by Time’s span;
      In an era and a spot, by the modern world forgot;
      We were lovers, ere God named us Maid and Man.

      Like the memory of music made by streams,
      All the beauty of that other life seems,
      But I always thought it so, and at last I know, I know.
      We were lovers in the land of Silver Dreams.
      O, the land of Silver Dreams all about us shines and gleams,
      Where we loved before God fashioned night and day.
      We were souls in eerie, minds made of light;
      Our love wings could speed from height to height.
      All was glory, love and light, light with out a night.”

Cresto sang these soul-stirring words to me while he was holding me in
his strong arms and carrying me home.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER XI.

                 Will those Visions come again
                   O, I long to soar back to Mars,
                   To live in a better land than ours;
                 To be loved by him always the same.


“O, Cathy, what a lovely, impulsive bride you are!”

The girls were deeply in love with each other. Ruth was reading to Cathy
on the front porch, both being seated in a low-swinging hammock.

These dear, sweet companions had been laughing and talking over their
new dresses, and reading all day. Cathy wore a dainty blue lawn; Ruth
was dressed all in pure white—she felt happiest when dressed in white.

Suddenly the clouds turned black. An awful storm was brewing. The
lightning came down in fiery forked tongues, and lighted up the awful
darkness. The tall, graceful pines swayed and moaned. They bowed their
haughty heads nearly to the earth. At times the whole country seemed on
fire with brilliant phosphorescent lights. The storm blasts were furious
in their battle with the pines of the forest. It would seem that the
storm fiends were angry at the stability, solidity, and placidity of
mother earth.

Ruth and Cathy had just finished reading Milton’s Paradise Lost. As they
were seriously discussing this masterpiece, there was a sudden, terrific
flash of lightning that blinded the girls a moment; it shocked Cathy,
she was afraid and could not speak or move. She remembered now all
Cresto told her on the island of Catalina. Half-stunned, she stared
wildly about her, grasping the edge of the hammock for support. Slowly
her head turned with ominous foreboding to a white heap on the porch.
Poor Catherine’s bosom welled within her. The emotion seemed too great
for human endurance. She sank forward on the body with a heartrending
sob. She remained a helpless, convulsed heap on the dead. Fear alone had
killed our delicate little Ruth, who had been suffering for days from
heart trouble, unknown to all. Again the lightning flashed. Cathy saw in
front of her as plain as a human, a tall, dark, handsome young
gentleman, with lovely, flowing white robes, full of light, bend over
Ruth’s lifeless form. Another bright flash of lightning and she
distinctly saw the lovely Ruth all in gauzy, fluffy, shimmering, pure
white, her robes full of light, too—by Cresto’s side, smiling.

“O! I never saw such dazzling, clinging, beautiful golden white robes on
any one as Ruth now wore. She looked like a fairy bride, much smaller
than she looked yesterday. I wondered if any angel in Heaven could dress
more beautiful? It is worth a fortune just to see this wonderful sight!
I am glad I came to see this resurrection of Ruth. I thank God for my
clairvoyance now. O! how lovely to know there is no death! Cresto and
his sweet mother wound a thin, long white silk veil around her head and
shoulders. For a moment Cresto held her close to his heart. He kissed
her tenderly and lovingly. Then the two smiled and waved their fairy
hands good bye at me. For the first time I saw Ruth and Cresto were not
alone. Cresto’s mother and many angels were leading the band. I saw them
distinctly rise higher and higher, up, up, into the dark clouds. They
floated away from life’s storms and the clouds and all darkness; away
from cold death, to immortal life; away into God’s bright blue
sunlight!”

As she watched the lovely golden white robes float away in the distance,
Cathy raised her arms in prayer.

“O! my Divine Heavenly Father and His Holy Angels, Will Thou resurrect
me to immortality? Will Thou protect me and those I love, and keep my
soul pure? May I prove there is no death to others and serve Thee, My
God, faithfully through all eternity? Amen.”

That lonely, dark, stormy night Cathy cried and sobbed for her lovely
Ruth. O! how terrible to be all alone at the hour of death!

Cathy’s great sorrow was darker than the night. Absolutely exhausted
from crying she fell asleep and dreamed she saw Ruth’s sylph-like form.
She was dressed the same as she was that night of her glorious
resurrection. Ruth, pale and trembling, stood gazing vacant-eyed, on the
immensity of nature. As each stroke flashed, Cathy shrieked in terror.
Ruth stood pale and motionless with head uplifted and nostrils dilated
in the ecstacy of the moment, the light of heaven beamed across her
soulful face. Her body became brilliantly illuminated, the pines could
be dimly seen through her almost transparent figure. She lifted her
fragile arms heavenward and slowly ascended, the glory shining around
her.

A month later Cathy went home to her husband, to love, to comfort and to
happiness. There is no happiness like a husband’s immortal love; perfect
love never dies.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Illustration: chapter headpiece]




                              CHAPTER XII.

            “’Tis told somewhere in Eastern story
              That those who loved once blossomed as flowers
            On the same stem, amid the glory
              Of Eden’s green and fragrant bowers;
            And that, though parted oft by fate
              Yet when the glow of life is ended,
            Each soul again shall find its mate,
              And in one bloom again be blended.”


Addison MacRay was now a very rich man; he and Cathy are perfectly happy
in their bungalow. They took charge of The Divinity Club and held three
large circles every week. The members of The Divinity Club were all
highly educated and refined. It had been a long, long time before she
ever saw Cresto and Ruth. At the club that night Addison and Cathy were
overjoyed and surprised at once more seeing Cresto and Ruth. The club
soon learned to understand Cresto by thought transference.

“O Ruth, dear, why have you stayed away so long? My Doll!!”

“My darling, sweet Cathy, we came here often but could not make our
presence known. You did not make the right conditions for us to show
ourselves and talk. Your club is lovely and we are regular members. My
dear child, if you keep the conditions like this we will come often and
help you. Darling Cathy, after my glorious transmission, Cresto and I
were married in a lovely temple on Mars. Cresto showed me the very
temple once in a vision. He often took me to Mars on long pleasure trips
before my transmission. In my visions I saw all things dimly, compared
to all I see and know now. I see all the beautiful scenery more clearly
now. Cathy, I wish you could see our lovely home in Mars, and all the
lovely jewels Cresto and my friends gave me. I cannot begin to tell you
how happy and busy I am. I often see my old school mates. We have so
many dear friends we enjoy with all our hearts. We love more in Mars
than you do on earth. In Mars we daily practice our Saviour’s words to
‘Love one another.’ My dear friends, love and work will bring wealth and
heaven to all dear, precious souls on earth. Cathy dear, Cresto wants to
tell you more about our marriage in Mars.”

“The great, tall, massive, and handsome temple was decorated in long
white rosebuds, and pink and white primroses, their fragrance filled the
temple. The pure white altar was banked with fragrant lillies, mingled
with cool, delicate ferns. Little above the altar hung a large white
cross of perfect tuberoses, interwoven with tiny white and gold candles;
each little candle was lighted with many-colored lights. Hundreds of our
old friends from India and America were there, singing around Eno, who
was playing the immense pipe organ; their dear voices sounded as sweetly
as those of the cherubims. The great organ was partly played by
electricity. After the music the ceremony was performed by a Catholic
priest.

“We sailed to our new home in white aluminum airships, decorated with
white roses and golden butterflies, and long, narrow white ribbons hung
down from the airships and floated gracefully in the bright sunlight. My
beautiful little mother entertained us with music, dancing, and a
perfect feast of fruit, nuts, cakes that looked like snowy ambrosia from
heaven; sweet, sparkling nectar, made from the juice of red grapes
filled the glasses. The long tables were richly decorated with rosebuds
and light green ferns. Ruth wore her gold crown for the first time; she
was dressed in her ascension robes and a long white, dainty bridal veil.
The veil was pinned on her long, heavy curly hair with little diamond
butterflies which Helios gave her. Ruth was a dream of beauty and looked
about sixteen,—all are young after their transmission. Friends, our
wedding ceremony was beautiful and very sacred. Our priest was a very
high angel, he had once been a Pope of Rome, he was perfect.

“We had our marriage certificate framed just like your own. That day was
a perfect golden day of love and sunshine. That day our souls were
overflowing with joy. Such happiness and love is never experienced on
earth. That beautiful day the birds sang sweeter melodies than ever, the
heavens were brighter, hearts were lighter. Souls were dearer than ever
to us, the music more melodious. We could feel the presence of our dear
Saviour and His Holy Angels sweetly smiling down upon us. All hearts are
linked together over there in one grand, strong immortal golden chain of
eternal love. Perfect pure love is the most sublime emotion that man or
angel ever experienced.

             Saints pray for love, love, love,
             To give us sunshine from above;
               They hear our prayers with loving smiles,
               Tenderly helping in all our trials,
             Praying for us to love, love, love.

             The stars are shining love, love, love,
             Souls are pining for love, love, love;
               Mind is linked to mind as one for all time,
               Hearts beat in love-rhythm sublime
             Singing love, love, love.

             May we love, love, love,
             As they do in stars above;
               If we send an earnest prayer from the soul
               To own our own, to love and to hold,
             God will send us love, love, love.

------------------------------------------------------------------------




                           TRANSCRIBER’S NOTE


          Punctuation has been normalized. Variations in
          hyphenation have been retained as they were in the
          original publication.

          The author's spelling has been maintained, except in
          the following cases:

       _Page_ _Original_                _As Corrected_
            2 MRS. CHARLES WILDER CLASS MRS. CHARLES WILDER GLASS
            8 the buterfly was made     the butterfly was made
            8 wonderful buterfly        wonderful butterfly
           17 My darling Pesus          My darling Persus
           17 we will work to gether    we will work together
           20 pricious jewels           precious jewels
           24 loveingly and tenderly    lovingly and tenderly
           28 to much                   too much
           39 Artimus used electricity  Artemus used electricity
           40 wonderful phychic         wonderful psychic
           45 love leter                love letter
           47 more vivacous             more vivacious
           59 napkins and handerchiefs  napkins and handkerchiefs
           52 Divine eHavenly Father    Divine Heavenly Father

          Italicized words and phrases are presented by
          surrounding the text with _underscores_.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Ruth's Marriage in Mars, by 
Mrs. Charles Wilder Glass

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK RUTH'S MARRIAGE IN MARS ***

***** This file should be named 56338-0.txt or 56338-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/6/3/3/56338/

Produced by MFR and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from
images generously made available by The Internet Archive)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

